1
The goal of the software development process is to create high-quality software by organizing, planning and utilizing diagrammatic conventions. 
Computer scientists have created a view of the development process called the "software development life cycle". One model of this is known as 
the "waterfall model"




2
A successful project should meet the following criteria:
-It solves the problem it was meant to solve
-It is easy to maintain
-it is scalable to meet the needs of the client
-There is a support system in place for the client
-It was delivered on time
-The client is satisfied
3
The waterfall model was developed by Dr. Winston Royce in 1970. It models the software development life cycle and includes several phases: 
problem statement, analysis, design, implementation, integration/testing, and maintenance. 





4
Analysis is the first step in the waterfall model. Your team figures out the problem your trying to solve,
and come up with ideas on how to work on creating a program to solve it.
During analysis, it can be beneficial to use graphs and models to help visualize the problem and solution.





5
The next step of the waterfall model is the design phase. During this step, a team will plan
out the implementation of software to solve the problem. This step focuses on the more detailed
aspects of the program's architecture.






6
The third phase of the waterfall model is the implementation. This step involves writing the actual
code for the program. It is much more streamlined and efficient when using the waterfall model as there
are guidelines already in place from the analysis and design phases.






7
The fourth step of the waterfall model is the integration/testing. This step mainly involves
finalizing the project and testing it for bugs and other errors. After this step, the
program is ready to be released.






8
The fifth and final step of the waterfall model is the maintenance phase. This phase comes after
the program has already been finished and released. During this phase, the developers use feedback
to correct any issues or work on further improving the program for future updates.







9
The Gantt Chart is a tool developed by mechanical engineer Henry Gantt in the 1910s.
It is a chart that shows each individual segment of a project, its current progress, and total time needed.
It helps project managers visualize each different part of the project and track overall progress.
Using a Gantt chart can be very useful for computer science projects.






10
UML which stands for Unified Modeling Language is a developmental modeling language which visually specifies parts of a system.
Complex software designs are more easily described through UML than by just using words.






